Am/tvc 67/smooth tvc debug mode user flow (#748)
tkhq/docs: features/verifiable-cloud/debug-mode.mdx

---
title: "Debug mode"

> description: "View enclave logs while developing a TVC app, and why debug mode must never be used for production."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "View enclave logs while iterating on a non-production TVC app."
```

Author: resolved here: 3d1d077c6216800e5c63ea89da6fe72733ee8028

sidebarTitle: "Debug mode"
tag: "Beta"
---

<Warning>
  Turnkey Verifiable Cloud is currently in Private Beta. [Join the waitlist](https://www.turnkey.com/turnkey-verifiable-cloud#waitlist) to request access.
</Warning>

> Debug mode lets you see what your application is doing inside the enclave while you build and troubleshoot a TVC app. It turns on the enclave's log output so you can read your app's logs from the CLI and the dashboard.

Reviewer: Somewhere near the top, you could add a detail like 

"Conceptually, enabling debug mode nullifies the trusted enclave's and effectively turns it into a regular, unverifiable node. Therefore, running verifiable workloads in production is inherently incompatible with enabling debug mode. This setting's purpose is to help you iterate in a non-production context before deploying to production. "

My point is that it's not just _**wrong**_ to turn debug mode on for prod apps, but it's **_fundamentally incompatible_**. Like trying to start a fire underwater. This is a little tricky to get across in a concise way

Author: gotcha, I can work this in!

Author: resolved here: 0355421de761013c0eb61c0c42d1dd03e4bb2883

> Because debug mode makes the enclave inspectable, it turns off the very guarantees TVC exists to provide. It is a development-only tool. The rest of this page explains what changes, how to enable it, and how to keep development and production cleanly separated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because debug mode makes the enclave inspectable, it turns off the very guarantees TVC exists to provide. It is a development-only tool and is incompatible with running verifiable workloads in production. The rest of this page explains what changes, how to enable it, and how to keep development and production cleanly separated.
```

Author: resolved here: 61ebdc2e2d4083aa56bcddb99e6f4be544e30f4e

<Warning>

>   **Never run production workloads in debug mode.** A debug-mode enclave is not verifiable, and its Quorum Key must be treated as public. Enabling debug mode on an app **permanently** marks that app's Quorum Key as insecure, for every deployment under it, and it cannot be undone. Use a **separate** app for production.

Reviewer: Setting is only available at app creation

```suggestion
  **Never run production workloads in debug mode.** A debug-mode enclave is not verifiable, and its Quorum Key must be treated as public. Creating an app with debug mode enabled **permanently** marks that app's Quorum Key as insecure, for every deployment under it, and it cannot be undone. Use a **separate** app for production.
```

Author: resolved here: 1a6bb5ef22040751115e24208836923cea575ad0

</Warning>

## What debug mode changes

When a deployment runs in debug mode:

> - **No remote attestation.** The enclave boots in AWS Nitro debug mode, which produces attestation documents whose PCR values are all zeros. The enclave cannot prove what code it is running, so it is not verifiable, and the core property of a TEE is effectively disabled. See [Proofs and verification](/features/verifiable-cloud/proofs-and-verification).

Reviewer: formatting nit

```suggestion
- **No remote attestation.** The enclave boots in AWS Nitro debug mode, which produces attestation documents whose PCR values are all zeros. The enclave cannot prove what code it is running, so it is not verifiable, and the core property of a TEE is effectively disabled. See [Proofs and Verification](/features/verifiable-cloud/proofs-and-verification).
```

Author: resolved here: 880609632fa15a7cc1acecea75a08435d2edf42e

- **The Quorum Key is exposed.** Because the enclave is inspectable, any secret inside it, including the app's Quorum Key, must be considered viewable. This is why the Quorum Key is permanently compromised once debug mode is enabled on an app.
- **Logs are readable.** Your application's `stdout` and `stderr` from inside the enclave are captured so you can view them (this is the point of debug mode). Anything your app logs is visible to you, and while debugging it is not protected by the enclave, so avoid logging secrets.
- **One replica.** Debug deployments run a single replica instead of three.

## Recommended flow: a dev app and a production app

Keep two separate apps that run the same image:

> 1. A **dev app** with debug mode allowed. Deploy your image here, read the logs, and iterate until it works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A **dev app** with debug mode enabled. Deploy your image here, read the logs, and iterate until it works.
```

Author: resolved here: d2c84b90f09702935eb88b84822b29901663131e

> 2. A **production app** with debug mode off and its own Quorum Key. Once your image works in the dev app, deploy the same image to your production app as a secure, verifiable deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A **production app** with debug mode disabled and its own Quorum Key. Once your image works in the dev app, deploy the same image to your production app as a secure, verifiable deployment.
```

Author: resolved here: 30a0790288791e64a6aa3bb35b4a6a54bb9f67e6

<Warning>
  **Each app must use its own Quorum Key.** The dev app's Quorum Key is compromised by debug mode, so your production app must be a distinct app with a distinct Quorum Key. Never reuse a Quorum Key across a debug app and a production app. See [Manifest sets and share sets](/features/verifiable-cloud/manifest-sets-and-share-sets) for how Quorum Keys and operators fit together.
</Warning>

## Enabling debug mode

Debug mode is controlled by two opt-in flags, both prefixed `dangerous` to signal that they weaken security.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Allow debug deployments on the app">
    Set this in your app config (`app.json` from `tvc app init`), or pass `--dangerous-enable-debug-mode-deployments` when creating the app:

    ```json
    {
      "name": "my-dev-app",
      "dangerousEnableDebugModeDeployments": true
    }
    ```

    <Note>
      This flag can only be set when the app is created and **cannot be changed later**. It defaults to `false`. Setting it to `true` is what permanently marks the app's Quorum Key as insecure, which is why this belongs on a dedicated dev app, never your production app.
    </Note>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Deploy in debug mode">

>     Set this in your deploy config (`deploy.json`), or pass `--dangerous-deploy-debug-mode` when creating the deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For deployments in the app you've just created, set this in your deploy config (`deploy.json`), or pass `--dangerous-deploy-debug-mode` when creating the deployment:
```

Author: resolved here: 86837a81e41aeeeec59dfc4637d773398b4cef1e

    ```json
    {
      "dangerousDeployDebugMode": true
    }
    ```

    The app flag only permits debug deployments; this flag actually runs the deployment in debug mode so its logs are captured.
  </Step>

  <Step title="View the logs">
    You can view your application's enclave logs from the CLI or on the deployment's page in the dashboard.

    Fetch the logs from the CLI:

    ```bash
    tvc deploy debug-logs --deploy-id <deployment-id> --poll
    ```

> 

Reviewer: add a line like 

"You can see other available options via `tvc deploy debug-logs --help` "

Author: resolved here: 0a9ce212a181daf145ff94b8e7cc275e51a58292
